blog: Add 1.24 release post (#333)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2025/04/kubewarden-1.24-release.md

---
title: Kubewarden 1.24 release
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado Juan
date: 2025-04-29
---

The wait is over—Kubewarden 1.24 has arrived! We have some easter eggs for you
in this one.

## Promoting our policies to v1.0.0

> In the past, we consciously picked semver `0.X.Y` for policy versions as that
> meant that the policy API with the user (in this case the policy
> `spec.settings`) was not considered stable. Just to clarify, we always ensure
> the policy API and ABI between policy-server and the policy is always
> compatible.

Reviewer: Is the use of 'for' still accurate, and perhaps better? API is obviously widely known and understood, how about binary in ABI? Is that also widely known and understood by the target audience?
```suggestion
In the past, we consciously picked semver `0.X.Y` for policy versions as that
meant that the policy API for the user (in this case, the policy
`spec.settings`) was not considered stable. To be clear, we always ensure
the policy API and ABI between policy-server and the policy is always
compatible.
```

> But to be fair, we haven't had the need to revisit this after several years,
> and policies keep getting 0.X.0 minor releases, with none breaking backwards
> compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We haven't needed to review this over the past few years,
so policies kept getting 0.X.0 minor releases, with none breaking backward
compatibility.
```

> Hence, it is about time we proudly declare that our policies are semver
> `v1.0.0`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, it is about time we proudly declare that our policies are semver
`v1.0.0`!
```

We have released most of our policies, those we consider stable,
as `v1.0.0`. This shows our commitment over this time,
now paraded in Semantic Versioning. You can find
[here](https://github.com/kubewarden/community?tab=readme-ov-file#repositories)
a list of policy repositories and their maturity level; note that the

> majority are declared stable. Others, like our `kyverno-dsl-policy`, being
> experimental, are released with version `0.1.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
majority are declared stable. The ones that are still considered experimental,
like the `kyverno-dsl-policy` one, have not reached `v1` yet.
```

> Benefits to using `v1.0.0` are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the last months we have also worked on improving the automation pipelines
used to build all our policies, both the stable and the experimental ones.
That leads to the following enrichment:
```

> We have then released the majority of our policies, those we consider stable,
> as `v1.0.0`. This showcases the commitment we have maintained all this time,
> now written in Semantic Versioning. You can find
> [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/community?tab=readme-ov-file#repositories)
> a list of policy repositories and the maturity level; one can see that the
> majority are declared as stable. Others, like our `kyverno-dsl-policy`, is
> experimental, and is now released with version `0.1.0`.

Reviewer: I thought 'paraded' might be a good word for this context.
```suggestion
We have released most of our policies, those we consider stable,
as `v1.0.0`. This shows our commitment over this time,
now paraded in Semantic Versioning. You can find
[here](https://github.com/kubewarden/community?tab=readme-ov-file#repositories)
a list of policy repositories and their maturity level; note that the
majority are declared stable. Others, like our `kyverno-dsl-policy`, being
experimental, are released with version `0.1.0`.
```

> To make use of the opportunity to bump to `v1.0.0`, now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benefits to using `v1.0.0` are:
```

> - Policy OCI artifacts are labeled with `org.opencontainers.image.*`. This
>   informs tools such as the Renovate bot, where the repo and changelog of the policy
>   live, which provides useful metadata when letting bots bump the policies you consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Policy OCI artifacts are labeled with `org.opencontainers.image.*` labels. This
  information can be used by automation tools like Renovate or Dependabot to react
  to new policy releases. For example, it would be possible to have Renovate crate
  pull requests to bump the policy version consumed by a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`
  definition.
```

> - Policy OCI artifacts are labeled with `org.opencontainers.image.*`. This
>   informs tools such as Renovate bot where the repo and changelog of the policy
>   lives, which provides pretty metadata when letting bots bump the policies you consume.

Reviewer: Useful rather than pretty?
```suggestion
- Policy OCI artifacts are labeled with `org.opencontainers.image.*`. This
  informs tools such as the Renovate bot, where the repo and changelog of the policy
  live, which provides useful metadata when letting bots bump the policies you consume.
```

- The `kwctl scaffold artifacthub` command was simplified in the previous
  `v1.23` release. Some of its mandatory flags, like the policy version, are now
  read from the `io.kubewarden.policy.version` annotation from the `metadata.yml`
  file.

> - We have further automated the release process of our policies, to cut a
>   monthly release when possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Kubewarden policies are real code, using compilers and 3rd party libraries. We alrady
  had automation in place to keep the policies dependencies up to date. Now, we also
  have automation in place that cuts monthly patch releases our each policy to ensure
  all these fresh dependencies are available to all of you.  
```

> - We have automated further the release process of our policies, to cut a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We have further automated the release process of our policies, to cut a
```

> To automate this this, we have created new pieces in our

Reviewer: 'pieces' suggests something in bits, parts are used to assemble things, so it is a better fit.
```suggestion
To automate this, we have created new parts in our
```

[kubewarden/github-actions](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions)
v4.4.4:

1. We added a new reusable workflow, `reusable-release-pr`, that can be
   triggered on a schedule. When it runs, it checks for changes from the last
   draft release, and opens a PR with [Updatecli](updatecli.io) if it finds changes. This is done
   via the new
   [`open-release-pr`](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions/blob/main/.github/workflows/reusable-release-pr.yml)

>    Updatecli policy you can find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can find the updatecli policy
```

   [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/automation/tree/main/updatecli).
2. We have a second reusable workflow,
   [`reusable-release-tag`](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions/blob/main/.github/workflows/reusable-release-tag.yml).

>    This workflow checks for PRs that the previous workflow opened, and, once the
>    maintaners merge the PR, takes care of tagging the policy so it gets released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This workflow checks for PRs that the previous workflow opened, and, once the
   maintainers merge the PR, tags the policy so it gets released.
```

> This process works for normal policy repos and monorepos (such as our github.com/kubewarden/rego-policies-library).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This process works for normal policy repos and monorepos, such as
[the one](https://github.com/kubewarden/rego-policies-library) that holds all our
rego policies.
```

> This process works for usual policy repos and monorepos (such as our github.com/kubewarden/rego-policies-library).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process works for normal policy repos and monorepos (such as our github.com/kubewarden/rego-policies-library).
```

## cel-policy v1.3.1 released

The latest release of the cel-policy comes with the [Encoder CEL
extension](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/google/cel-go/ext#Encoders), which
allows users to encode/decode base64 strings. In addition, it contains bumps of
`github.com/google/cel-go` to v0.23.2, plus `k8s.io/apiserver` and
`k8s.io/apimachinery` to v1.33.0.

## Bugs, minor features and maintenance bumps

As usual, we have kept busy by paying back technical debt for a better future.

> The Audit Scanner logs have now moved from consuming zerlog to
> [slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog), a structured logging standard library for
> Go. If you are consuming the logs, there are no differences in output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Audit Scanner logs have now moved from consuming [zerolog](https://github.com/rs/zerolog) to
[slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog). The latter is a structured logging
that is part of Go's official standard library. We did this change to
reduce our dependency tree.
If you are consuming the logs, there are no differences in output.
```

> The Audit Scanner logs now have moved from consuming zerlog to
> [slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog), a structured logging standard library for
> Go. If you are consuming the logs, there shouldn't be any difference in output.
> Thanks Dharmit Shah for the contribution!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Audit Scanner logs have now moved from consuming zerlog to
[slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog), a structured logging standard library for
Go. If you are consuming the logs, there are no differences in output.
Thanks to Dharmit Shah for the contribution!
```

> The policy-server code that deals with PolicyGroups has been moved into
> the policy-evaluator library. Also, we no longer suppress TLS-related
> messages, and failed connections will appear at the Info level. Thanks to Kirat for
> the contribution! Kirat also made an improvement to kwctl for the registry URLs,
> planned for release in v1.25.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The policy-server code that deals with [policy groups](https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/policy-groups) has been moved the
[policy-evaluator library](https://github.com/kubewarden/policy-evaluator/).
This refactoring paves the way for future improvements to `kwctl`, like being able
to use `kwctl run` to evaluate policy groups.

Finally, when the Kubewarden stack is [hardened using mTLS](https://docs.kubewarden.io/reference/security-hardening/webhooks-hardening#require-the-kubernetes-api-server-to-authenticate-to-the-webhook), the Policy Server instances will
log all the connection attempts done by client that cannot be identified/trusted.
Thanks to Kirat for the contribution!
```

> the contribution! Kirat also made an improvement to kwctl for the registry URLs

Reviewer 3: @maanugh are you fine to be mentioned in the blog post?

Reviewer 4: Yes :smile:

> On the policy-server, the code that deals with PolicyGroups has been moved into
> the policy-evaluator library. Also, we are now not suppressing TLS-related
> messages, and failed connections will appear at Info level. Thanks Kirat for
> the contribution! Kirat also made an improvement to kwctl for the registry URLs
> that is slated to be released on v1.25.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy-server code that deals with PolicyGroups has been moved into
the policy-evaluator library. Also, we no longer suppress TLS-related
messages, and failed connections will appear at the Info level. Thanks to Kirat for
the contribution! Kirat also made an improvement to kwctl for the registry URLs,
planned for release in v1.25.
```

For the .NET SDK, we have now our first PR for adding host capabilities, in

> this case the network DNS host lookup. Thanks Ibrahim Gaber for the

Reviewer 3: @IbrahimGaberOfficial are you fine to be mentioned in the blog post?

Reviewer 5: Yes, thank you for the mention.

Reviewer 6: Yes, thank you for the mention.

> contribution!

Reviewer 3: As far as I can understand, we are considering to merge this [PR](https://github.com/kubewarden/policy-sdk-dotnet/pull/53) before or close in time of the release of this blog post. Am I right?

Author: Yes, that's the plan. Maybe it's a bit early, but felt fair.

Reviewer 2: I would drop that from this blog post and do a dedicate post once the PR is actually merged.

> We have addressed some CVEs in our dependency tree (e.g: `golang.org/x/net`).
> For others, consuming the fixes needs to propagate through our dependencies.
> The bumps also include the Policy Reporter subchart to 3.1.3. We also migrated
> to golangci-lint v2 with a golden config, and refactored as neeeded by linters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have addressed some CVEs in our dependency tree (e.g., `golang.org/x/net`).
For others, consuming the fixes needs to propagate through our dependencies.
The bumps also include the Policy Reporter subchart to 3.1.3. We also migrated
to golangci-lint v2 with a golden config and refactored as needed by linters.
```

## Google Summer of Code

> We await the decision from the administration of Google Summer of Code with
> regards to our projects. Crossing our fingers! We thank those that have been
> stretching their Kubewarden muscles and providing contributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We await the decision from the Google Summer of Code administrators regarding
our projects. Fingers crossed! We thank those who have been
stretching their Kubewarden muscles and contributing.
```

---
title: Kubewarden 1.24 release
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado Juan
date: 2025-04-30
---

The wait is over, Kubewarden 1.24 has arrived! We have some Easter eggs for you
in this one.

## Promoting our policies to v1.0.0

In the past, we consciously picked semver `0.X.Y` for policy versions as that
meant that the policy API for the user (in this case, the policy
`spec.settings`) was not considered stable.

Since the settings of our policies haven't changed since their initial release,
we decided it was time to highlight their stability by promoting them to `v1.0.0`.

We have released most of our policies, those we consider stable,

> as `v1.0.0`. This shows our commitment over this time,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as `v1.0.0`. This shows our commitment over time,
```

now paraded in Semantic Versioning. You can find
[here](https://github.com/kubewarden/community?tab=readme-ov-file#repositories)
a list of policy repositories and their maturity level; note that the
majority are declared stable. The ones that are still considered experimental,
like the `kyverno-dsl-policy` one, have not reached `v1` yet.

During the last months we have also worked on improving the automation pipelines
used to build all our policies, both the stable and the experimental ones.

> That lead to the following enrichment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That led to the following enrichment:
```

- Policy OCI artifacts are labeled with `org.opencontainers.image.*` labels. This
  information can be used by automation tools like Renovate or Dependabot to react
  to new policy releases. For example, it would be possible to have Renovate create
  pull requests to bump the policy version consumed by a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`
  definition.
- The `kwctl scaffold artifacthub` command was simplified in the previous
  `v1.23` release. Some of its mandatory flags, like the policy version, are now
  read from the `io.kubewarden.policy.version` annotation from the `metadata.yml`
  file.
- Kubewarden policies are real code, using compilers and 3rd party libraries. We already
  had automation in place to keep the policies dependencies up to date. Now, we also

>   have automation in place that cuts monthly patch releases of each policy to ensure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  have automation that cuts monthly patch releases of each policy to ensure
```

>   all these fresh dependencies are available to all of you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all these fresh dependencies are available to you.
```

  to new policy releases. For example, it would be possible to have Renovate create
  pull requests to bump the policy version consumed by a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`
  definition.
- The `kwctl scaffold artifacthub` command was simplified in the previous
  `v1.23` release. Some of its mandatory flags, like the policy version, are now
  read from the `io.kubewarden.policy.version` annotation from the `metadata.yml`
  file.
- Kubewarden policies are real code, using compilers and 3rd party libraries. We already
  had automation in place to keep the policies dependencies up to date. Now, we also
  have automation in place that cuts monthly patch releases of each policy to ensure
  all these fresh dependencies are available to all of you.

To automate this, we have created new parts in our
[kubewarden/github-actions](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions)
v4.4.4:

1. We added a new reusable workflow, `reusable-release-pr`, that can be
   triggered on a schedule. When it runs, it checks for changes from the last
   draft release, and opens a PR with [Updatecli](updatecli.io) if it finds changes. This is done
   via the new

>    [`open-release-pr`](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions/blob/main/.github/workflows/reusable-release-pr.yml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   [`open-release-pr`](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions/blob/main/.github/workflows/reusable-release-pr.yml) reusable workflow.
```

As usual, we have kept busy by paying back technical debt for a better future.

### Audit scanner

The Audit Scanner logs have now moved from consuming [zerolog](https://github.com/rs/zerolog) to
[slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog). The latter is a structured logging library
that is part of Go's official standard library. We did this change to
reduce our dependency tree.
If you are consuming the logs, there are no differences in output.
Thanks to Dharmit Shah for the contribution!

### Policy server & kwctl

The policy-server code that deals with [policy groups](https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/policy-groups) has been moved the
[policy-evaluator library](https://github.com/kubewarden/policy-evaluator/).
This refactoring paves the way for future improvements to `kwctl`, like being able
to use `kwctl run` to evaluate policy groups.

Finally, when the Kubewarden stack is [hardened using
mTLS](https://docs.kubewarden.io/reference/security-hardening/webhooks-hardening#require-the-kubernetes-api-server-to-authenticate-to-the-webhook),
the Policy Server instances will
log all the connection attempts done by client that cannot be identified/trusted.

> This change didn't make the cut of 1.24, but will surely be in 1.25.
> Thanks to Kirat for the contribution!

Reviewer 2: We have to remove these lines, they are not about the mTLS logging improvement. This change is part of 1.24, see "bug fixes" section of  the [changelog](https://github.com/kubewarden/policy-server/releases/tag/v1.24.0).

```suggestion
```

In the past, we consciously picked semver `0.X.Y` for policy versions as that
meant that the policy API for the user (in this case, the policy
`spec.settings`) was not considered stable.

Since the settings of our policies haven't changed since their initial release,
we decided it was time to highlight their stability by promoting them to `v1.0.0`.

We have released most of our policies, those we consider stable,
as `v1.0.0`. This shows our commitment over this time,
now paraded in Semantic Versioning. You can find
[here](https://github.com/kubewarden/community?tab=readme-ov-file#repositories)
a list of policy repositories and their maturity level; note that the
majority are declared stable. The ones that are still considered experimental,
like the `kyverno-dsl-policy` one, have not reached `v1` yet.

During the last months we have also worked on improving the automation pipelines
used to build all our policies, both the stable and the experimental ones.

> That leads to the following enrichment:

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I made an grammar mistake inside of my previous suggestion:

```suggestion
That lead to the following enrichment:
```

As usual, we have kept busy by paying back technical debt for a better future.

The Audit Scanner logs have now moved from consuming [zerolog](https://github.com/rs/zerolog) to

> [slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog). The latter is a structured logging

Reviewer 2: Sorry, again my mistake

```suggestion
[slog](https://pkg.go.dev/log/slog). The latter is a structured logging library
```
